Add ADR-12 (#830)
GSA/fedramp-automation: documents/adr/0012-constraint-strategy.md

_This is the template in [Documenting architecture decisions - Michael Nygard](http://thinkrelevance.com/blog/2011/11/15/documenting-architecture-decisions).  In each ADR file, write these sections_:

# 12. Constraint Prioritization Strategy ADR 
Date: 2024-09-26

## Status

Proposed

## Context

> The FedRAMP Automation Team requires a consistent mechanism for prioritizing and performing work on FedRAMP constraints. While a larger strategy document was created internally, this ADR documents the key decisions from that document in order to provide transparency to stakeholders and guide contributors to the constraint work.  

Reviewer: Blocking: I assume people already see this in GitHub, but I do not really want us to emphasize we have internal communications separate from them. I will also state here that, over time, we will want to move away from internal tracking documents, so I would like us to limit 🤞 hopefully historical references to clean up in the future. Otherwise, good stuff.

```suggestion
The FedRAMP Automation Team requires a consistent strategy and methodology for prioritizing and performing work on FedRAMP constraints. This ADR documents the key decisions in how FedRAMP will develop and maintain constraints, in order to provide transparency to stakeholders and guide contributors to this work.  
```

## Decision

The FedRAMP Automation Team recognizes the need to develop automation capabilities in the context of current FedRAMP policies, guidance, and review standards. 
Within this context, the Team recognizes three tiers of automation:
- **Completeness Checks**: Ensure the presence of required content and attachments within the package submission. Typically defined and performed using Metaschema constraints.

> - **Integrity Checks**: Focus on data correlation and consistency checks within the OSCAL content, similar to database referential integrity checks. Some of this can be performed with Metaschema constraints; however, some may require another mechanism to fully address.

Reviewer 2: It could be good to include examples for each category here

Reviewer: I would like that but it not necessarily urgent, I am fine either way on this one. We definitely should document that elsewhere.

Author: I added a sentence to each type with examples.

- **Reviewer Automation**: Advanced and complex digital package quality checks to that  support decision-makers in understanding the CSO’s risk posture.

> This ADR focuses on Metaschema constraints related to **Completeness Checks** and **Integrity Checks**.

Author: I wanted to define the three tiers first and then make a statement that two of those three tiers are the focus here.

### Approach

1. The Team will align automation actiivity to the FedRAMP Templates and Review Checklists for FedRAMP Baselines based on NIST SP 800-53 Revision 5.
1. The Team will assess each automation activity as something that:

>   1. is fully automatable via metaschema constraints or other means; or
>   1. requires human judgement, thus is more suited to a workflow.

Reviewer: Agree to this, also we should capitalize Metaschema.

```suggestion
    1. is fully automatable via Metaschema constraints or other means; or
    1. requires human judgement, thus is more suited to a workflow.
```

1. The Team will prioritize and logically group related constratins into Epics, defined in the FedRAMP Automation GitHub repository.
1. The Team will bundle work into milestones and releases that ensure stakeholders are able to use constraints sooner. 

### Prioritization

The Team will adhear to the following prioritization principles:
- Simple constraints over complex 
- Prioritizing higher value, lower effort constraints first
- Focus on items that apply to all impact levels (H/M/L)

### Delivery Themes 

The Team will work in the following sequence:
- Theme 1: Completeness Checks
- Theme 2: Data and Referential Integrity Checks 
- Theme 3: Reviewer Automation

All contributers to constraint development will ensure all contributions adhear to the [Definition of Done](https://github.com/GSA/fedramp-automation/wiki/Constraint-Management#definition-of-done), which includes updating the documentation in accordance with the [Documentation Standards](https://github.com/GSA/fedramp-automation/wiki/Constraint-Management#documentation-standards).

> ## Consequences

Reviewer 2: I second this. Makes the most sense, but isn't necessarily all good.

> ## Consequences

Author: Great point! Added a paragraph to address negative consequences.

> _This is the template in [Documenting architecture decisions - Michael Nygard](http://thinkrelevance.com/blog/2011/11/15/documenting-architecture-decisions).  In each ADR file, write these sections_:
> 

Reviewer: I missed this before, can we remove this?

```suggestion
```

> # 12. Constraint Prioritization Strategy ADR 
> Date: 2024-09-26
> 
> ## Status
> 
> Proposed

Reviewer: If we approve this, we are at the moment where we change the date and status. 😄 

```suggestion
# 12. Constraint Prioritization Strategy ADR 
Date: 2024-10-04

## Status

Accepted
```
